Previously on Marvel's
Agents of S.H.I.E.L.D...
A hard drive?
It's all the research
our team's ever done,
encrypted for safekeeping.
I'll give you 24 hours to get
the password and get out.
After that, bring the girl to me.
You don't have to shut people out.
Yeah, I do.
Eric?
- There are things about me
that you wouldn't like
if you knew.
He's HYDRA.
You all right? Why'd you leave?
I'm good. I want this.
I just got word from Fitz.
We need to go right now.
- Where's our bus?
- And our team?
I don't know.
Yeah, it went as expected.
S.H.I.E.L.D. implodes,
and everyone wants answers.
The CIA, NSA, NRO, them I can handle.
But Congress?
Congress is like kindergarten.
"Where is this Fridge?
What was in there?
"Who or what is a Man-Thing?"
I swear, I need a cocktail
and a lobotomy.
But, apparently, my every move
continues to fascinate them.
Tonight's standard-issue
surveillance package includes
fake yuppie not checking
her texts at the bus stop,
imposter homeless man,
mildly offensive,
and the hipster following me
looks familiar.
I think he's Russian, or...
Gone.
Pepper, I'll call you back in 10.
We need to talk, Agent Hill.
May-
A phone call would've done it,
but I appreciate the discretion.
Thought you'd like the night off.
They must hate that
you're going to work for Stark.
Most of the intelligence community
would like to drop me into a dark hole.
But even they can't mess with
Tony's army of lawyers.
So, for now, we're privatizing
global security. Wanna join?
Coulson needs help.
And he won't take it from me anymore.
- Where is he?
-Providence base.
And he's got enough to worry about
without obsessing over T.A.H.I.T.I.
and who covered it up.
You mean besides us?
- How much does he know?
-Enough.
That they used alien biology,
rewrote his memories,
and that Fury did it under
someone else's direction.
I wanna know who that was.
You're afraid it was Alexander Pierce?
Secretary Pierce
was the man in charge,
the only person Fury took orders
from, and he was HYDRA.
Having a man like that
design your brain?
You can understand my concern.
Fury took his cues from pretty
high up, that much I know.
But when I asked him who it was,
Fury said he buried that intel
when he decided not to bury Coulson.
Maria, this is not the time to wax poetic.
Those are his words, not mine.
You knew the man,
sometimes he spoke in riddles.
Guess I'll have to solve it, then.
Unless you wanna ask Fury for me.
Fury's dead.
I'll believe it when I see it.
Drop your weapon!
Three minutes and 20 seconds. Really?
If you were my agents,
it wouldn't be for long.
Play it again.
It's the same every time, sir.
Fitz.
As I said, all internal
camera feeds were erased.
But the hangar's landing
assist system is separate.
The camera tracks movement.
So after we left,
everything's normal until this.
An entry log has May leaving the base
a few minutes later through
the front door. Only her.
And then, this.
Holding hands.
Soon after, the plane takes off.
That is all we've got.
Where are they going? And Koenig?
Koenig must have
gotten onto the plane somehow.
There's no other way in or out.
The blast door and the hangar door
are the only exits.
And both are undamaged.
So nobody attacked the place,
and they weren't running away.
So why?
- Maybe Koenig got orders.
-From who? Not Fury.
Is there anyone left to give orders?
Aren't we just improvising at this point?
Still wouldn't explain why
the communication lines were cut.
Or why they left their phones.
Or why May just left.
May walked away because I told her to.
I was mad and I was mean.
Then we don't need her sorry ass.
Excuse me?
With all the crap we're facing,
this is not the time to
pull the rip cord, bail out.
I'll make us some food. We have to eat.
- Let me help.
-No, I'll get it, actually. You stay here.
Simmons.
For a minute there in the field, I thought
things were normal again, and then...
Why do you think
they left us in the dark?
I don't know.
But something will turn up.
We just have to stay positive.
For Coulson, yeah. I know.
He's had a rough go of it.
Yeah. Between Garrett, and May,
and seeing Audrey and...
Pancakes.
Coulson's upset about pancakes now?
That's one way to cheer
everyone up a bit, don't you think?
I'll see if we have any in stock.
Yeah, I'll fire up the griddle.
Night?
Day?
Sir, you're an expert on analysis.
I can see you running scenarios in your
head, so what do you got?
Best case?
Agent Koenig
knows something we don't.
Took a team.
Kept us in the dark for our safety.
And worst-case scenario?
We've had a wolf in the herd
the whole time.
- Fitz keeps the candy under his bunk.
What are you up to?
I'm just looking for the
sat-phone to call the team.
Make sure everyone's all right,
no one's blown up.
I got the phone. I just talked to Coulson
a little while ago.
- You did?
-Yeah.
Sorry. Should've told you. They're okay.
But, the sooner we get to the location,
decrypt that drive...
The sooner we can
rendezvous with the team.
Exactly.
Seemed like a smart play at
the time, geo-locking the drive.
I didn't think it'd backfire on us.
It hasn't backfired.
The drive is supposed to be
impossible to crack.
Pretty specific coordinates, though.
You could've picked
anywhere in the world.
Why a random diner in L.A.?
It was already built into my encryption,
never changed it.
But it's fitting.
It's where I met Mike Peterson.
It's where this whole S.H.I.E.L.D.
roller coaster started.
Plus, tactically,
what do you look for in a drop site?
Public place, lots of people,
multiple exits.
Yep. Figured if I ever got in trouble,
I'd be safe there.
You'll be plenty safe.
This, however, is not the answer.
What's the matter,
a girl can't defend herself?
In this situation,
the last thing we can afford
is to get pinched on
a concealed weapons charge.
You're right, again.
I couldn't find any rounds anyway.
Hey-
We are gonna be okay.
I promise, until this thing is over,
I'm not gonna let you out of my sight.
Impossible. It can't be.
No. I don't believe it.
Take a breath, Agent Fitz.
Don't tell me to take a breath.
Who the hell are you?
I mean, really, come on.
I don't even know who you are.
- I just went through this, remember?
-Don't touch me.
My S.O. turned out
to be a lying son of a bitch.
Not Ward, okay? Not Ward.
Do you know why?
Because he's our friend.
And Simmons will find something.
Go on, tell them, Jemma.
- Let me work, Fitz.
-Yeah, but tell them that Ward is a...
Let me work.
Something else is at play here, sir.
Think about it. They're just
trying to mess with our heads.
They wrote that on the wall to scare us.
- One step at a time.
-We need to get out of here.
Simmons will give her report.
That's the next step.
He died approximately
10 hours ago of asphyxiation,
after May left the premises.
A thin wire was used to strangle him.
His trachea is crushed,
partially sliced through.
So it was done in a hurry.
Based on the angle of the lacerations,
the killer was at least 6'2".
And strong enough to lift him into...
Ward did this.
Fitz!
No, no, no, don't!
Okay, okay!
We need to hold it together.
Listen.
All that anger,
all that pain, you need to hold it in
and focus it on Skye.
She's alive.
And she just walked out of here
hand in hand with someone
she knows is a murderer,
because she's playing him.
Just like he played us.
Fitz. Fitz.
We have to fix the communications.
We have to track that plane.
Can you do that?
Good.
If I know Skye, she's got a plan.
And we're gonna find her before
Ward figures out what that is.
Come on, Skye.
What's your play?
Can't remember the last time
I sat in a restaurant.
I know. It's been all tubes,
tunnels and plane food.
Maybe I'll get pie for dessert.
Dessert?
I was hoping we'd be done
by the time I finished coffee.
You have any idea how long it'll take
to decrypt this drive?
For you? I figured 10 minutes.
Not even close.
The GPS will take a hot second
to calibrate,
but I'm working on a laptop,
so even at three cycles per byte,
there are still terabytes of data...
Spare me the details.
Give me the time frame.
An hour would be a miracle.
Coulson needs this yesterday.
My laptop's not a time machine, Ward.
That's the science.
I guess we're having dessert.
Can you grab me a cable?
I think there's one in the drawer.
Thanks.
That seemed to work.
Fitz is using the Jumpjet's
relay to power it.
He's like a ninja with this crap.
- How's he doing?
-Freaking out.
But focused on the task,
which was good advice. And you?
Trust me, I'm gonna have
a major freak-out later.
All right. Ward is HYDRA.
You know what that means.
- Garrett is alive.
-And Agent Hand is dead.
So they hit the Fridge.
And they took out all the weapons
they could possibly want.
And we didn't have a clue.
So why risk coming back here?
It wasn't to cross us off.
What do you have that he wants?
I don't know.
He had all our intel on that drive.
All he had to do was make a copy...
He came back for Skye.
She must have encrypted that drive.
And she was the only one
who could crack back into it.
- So they have to keep her alive.
-And she can stall for time.
Our plane is in Los Angeles.
Finally, some good news.
--Perimeter defenses activated.
I should have knocked
on wood just then.
Multiple contacts
on the ground.
- They just triggered the gun turrets.
-Come on.
- You're staring again.
I'm not allowed to do that?
I told you, it's a complicated hack.
You're mistaking my admiration
for impatience.
No, it's impatience.
Okay. Sorry.
Didn't mean to stress you out.
Maybe you should duck outside.
Try again on the sat-phone,
just to make sure.
No. We stick together,
we stick to the plan.
The sooner you
decrypt this hard drive...
The sooner we get to them.
I heard you twice the first time.
Are you all right?
You look nervous.
How can you tell, superspy?
Staying unnaturally still
to keep from fidgeting.
Maintaining eye contact to give
the impression of confidence.
What's wrong?
The last time I was in this booth,
I was sitting across from Mike Peterson.
A good man. And now he's a murderer.
And we are FBI's most wanted.
It's just like any moment
something could go horribly wrong.
Relax, you're doing great.
Hiding what I'm thinking and feeling,
it doesn't come as easy for me
as it does for you.
Comes with experience.
Yeah, I guess it does.
- What can I get you guys?
- Some coffee.
I wish this bunker
had a bunker.
These doors should hold.
It'll take some major artillery
to make a dent.
Hangar door deactivated.
How? That's impossible.
Take cover. Let's go.
It's not HYDRA. It's Special Forces.
On behalf of the
United States Armed Forces,
I order you to stand down.
I repeat, stand down-
Colonel Talbot?
There have to be better things for you to
do than chase four S.H.I.E.L.D. agents.
I wasn't a huge fan before chasing
you to the damn tundra, Coulson.
I wouldn't push it.
I'm flattered you came in person.
Fury's private base
on North American soil?
I just had to see it for myself.
If I come out, will you shoot me?
'Cause then I won't come out.
Hold your fire, soldiers.
This is one of the most classified
facilities on the planet, Colonel.
How the hell did you find it?
I told them.
My condolences.
"T.A.H.I.T.I. Project Supervisor
to Director Fury."
- We're not criminals.
- Great.
Then we'll take you in,
you can tell us all about it.
At the very least, you're fugitives.
And running away
puts a bit of a guilty stink on it,
don't you think?
We're not HYDRA.
We're Agents of S.H.I.E.L.D.
Well right now, to the rest of the world,
that's the same thing.
All right, I'm gonna tell you
how it's gonna be.
You give me actionable intelligence,
and I'll allow you
to serve time rewarded.
Your other option's pretty much hell.
Do your worst.
We told you of a known HYDRA agent.
He's getting away.
And your little intimidation speech
is keeping us from saving
the life of a fellow agent.
A friend.
Sister, you haven't seen intimidation.
And right now I'm your only friend.
I'd be careful not to piss me off.
The word "agent" implies that
your corrupt organization still exists.
Your leadership abandoned you
for the private sector.
And we're gonna allow that
in exchange
for valuable assets like yourself.
So right now,
I'd be thinking hard and fast
about exactly what it is that
makes you valuable.
I am offering you
a lifeline here, Coulson.
Don't thank me.
Just take it, and we'll be on our way.
Don't see how thanks are in order,
considering you just sold me out
and led the US military
straight to Fury's secret base.
No, Phil.
You led us straight to Fury's secret base
as part of the deal we made.
You can't be serious.
You and I are gonna
turn over these abandoned tunnels
to the US government,
who will be ever so grateful
to take possession
of an enemy stronghold
in their backyard.
What about my team?
They're gonna have to
go through the system.
- Interrogation...
-Not gonna happen.
Look, talk to Talbot.
Cough up some meaningless intel
about this place.
Nothing significant, of course,
nothing about S.H.I.E.L.D.'s
other installations.
You're still protecting your secrets.
Is there anything specific you're afraid
I'll talk about? T.A.H.I.T.I., maybe?
- Phil.
-I'm a liability? Is that it?
Grow up, Phil.
Of course you're a liability.
But I know you'll do the right thing.
The right thing?
That's funny, coming from you.
After everything
you and Fury have done.
- Look, it was for...
-For my own good, I know. I get it.
You should've been straight with me.
I would've kept your secrets
like a good soldier. I always have.
But, instead, you were worried
about me,
when you should've been worried
about anyone else!
You're right.
We should've seen HYDRA coming.
But after DC, they don't stand a chance.
- John Garrett does.
-Garrett? I heard Ward took care of him.
Ward's his secret weapon.
He killed Victoria Hand,
then raided the Fridge,
and now he's got Skye.
Which is where we were headed
until you so rudely interrupted
to sweeten your deal.
I vetted Ward.
You wanna make this right?
Stop wasting time.
Can we move this along?
I'd like to tear this room apart.
Sure, Colonel. Knock yourself out.
- Get your people. We need to move.
-"We"?
- How much longer?
-Half hour.
You said that a half an hour ago.
Weren't you the one
who told me to relax?
Those cops over there
keep looking at us.
They're just checking out the waitress.
They don't know you're
pretending to be someone you're not.
Yeah? All right.
Who am I pretending to be?
My impatient boyfriend.
I like that cover.
What's the longest
you've been undercover?
Like, deep undercover?
Uh...
-16 months.
-When was that?
Hmm, about five years
outside of the Academy.
I posed as a Russian attaché
at the embassy in Warsaw.
It's got to be so hard,
living a double life like that.
Getting close to people
only to turn on them.
I don't know how Garrett did it.
Garrett?
Think about all that time
he spent as your S.O.,
getting to know you, being your mentor,
only to lie to your face,
betray you like that.
It was difficult to accept.
But, thankfully, that's over.
Because you took care of him.
Can we not discuss this right now?
If you had one more moment,
before you shot him in the back
of the head so heroically,
if he was sitting right here,
and you could say anything you want,
-what would you say?
-Skye!
Would you say he's disgusting?
Would you tell him
he's a disgusting, backstabbing traitor?
Or to rot in hell?
What are you doing?
I'm just trying to have an
honest conversation for once.
Excuse me, folks.
Could I just ask you to
step out for a second?
They're starting to clear people out.
We should go.
- No, I think I'm good here.
-Skye, we've been made. Come on.
No.
I tipped them off.
Hail HYDRA.
- You two! Show me your hands, now!
-Get 'em up!
Out of the booth, nice and slow.
All right, turn around.
Hands on your head.
Just be careful. He's armed.
Skye!
- Officers! I surrender, arrest me.
-Slow down, ma'am.
- What are you talking about?
-I'm an agent of S.H.I.E.L.D.,
a wanted fugitive. Take me in.
Come on, what are you doing?
Get me out of here!
That's it! Come on!
I'll do whatever you want,
- but you should...
Skye. Don't run.
You don't understand! Look!
I'm not trying to hurt you!
You should be thanking me.
I saved your ass.
You didn't save my ass.
You turned it into a public spectacle.
You let her get one over on you.
That's exactly what
Garrett was afraid of.
And Garrett told you to stay out of sight.
He ordered me to shadow you.
He knew you had a soft spot for Skye
and she might take advantage of it.
Well, he was wrong. We have her.
And once she gives us
the location, we'll be off.
Yeah, that's not gonna happen.
Take a walk. I can handle this.
Can you? You haven't so far.
Garrett says you have five minutes.
I can explain.
Lying bastard! Son of a bitch!
You lying...
- Stop! Stop!
Okay? It's over. You can't win.
- Stop.
All this time,
everything we've been through.
Why? How could you?
I was on a mission.
- It wasn't personal.
-"it wasn't. .
You did not just say that.
"it wasn't personal"?
Skye, listen to me.
God, you might actually believe that.
That is the twisted logic
that they teach you
when you sign up to be a Nazi.
Stop, wait. I'm not a Nazi.
Yes, you are.
That is exactly what you are.
It's in the S.H.I.E.L.D. handbook,
Chapter 1.
"The Red Skull, founder of HYDRA,
"was a big fat freakin' Nazi."
That has nothing to do with today.
You know, you always
had that Hitler Youth look to you,
so it's really not that surprising.
It's not like that. I'm a spy. I had a job.
You've killed
I don't know how many people.
You gonna kill me now?
No. I would never hurt you.
Once I crack the drive,
are you just going to shoot me
like you did with Thomas Nash?
Or are you gonna have someone else
do it, like you did with Quinn?
I didn't know that was gonna happen.
That was all Garrett.
Of course it was Garrett's fault.
It was part of the mission, right?
You're just gonna kick back
and watch me bleed until it's
your turn to pull the trigger.
You think I had a part in that?
That I'd let that happen to you?
You know how I feel about you, Skye.
Wait.
So even though you've been lying
to everyone about everything,
you're saying that your feelings for me...
They're real, Skye.
They always have been.
I'm gonna throw up.
You think this has been easy for me?
Do you have any idea how hard it was?
The sacrifices, the decisions
I had to make? But I made them.
Because that's what I do. I'm a survivor.
You are a serial killer.
And you know what?
You were right about one thing.
I wouldn't like the real you.
Someday, you'll understand.
No, I won't.
And I will never, ever
give you what you want.
Ow!
Time's up.
You can tell me where to unlock
the drive, or you can tell him.
Mike.
Please. I know you don't wanna do this.
-It's not up to me.
-Yes, it is.
I don't care what they did to you.
You're still Mike Peterson.
You're still a father. You have a son.
Who I left in your hands.
I asked you to look after him, Skye.
Where is he now?
He's with his aunt, under the protection
of a S.H.I.E.L.D. team.
And what is S.H.I.E.L.D. today?
HYDRA can hurt my son
anytime they want.
And if I get any funny ideas
about rescuing him,
they push a little button
and blow a hole in my skull.
- Fitz-Simmons will figure out a way...
-No.
There's no way out of this, Skye.
Tell us how to unlock the drive.
- No.
-Damn it, Skye.
You could've shot me back in Italy,
but you didn't.
They made Quinn do it because
there's still good in you, Mike.
And I don't think you're gonna hurt me.
You're right. I won't hurt you.
What did you do to him?
Stopped his heart.
- His heart...
-isn't beating.
He's having a heart attack.
I can restart it, or not. It's your choice.
Skye.
You think
I don't wanna watch him suffer?
Not suffer, die.
Garrett doesn't think
you're gonna let that happen.
- He's a murderer.
-Yes, he is.
Are you?
- Okay. Stop.
-Where do you unlock the drive?
- Bring him back!
-Where?
35,000 feet. It's not based on longitude
or latitude, it's altitude.
- You're lying.
-I'm not!
I put the password in,
and I start the hack,
and once we reach altitude, it unlocks.
Now bring him back.
Put the password in.
Start the hack. No tricks.
You son of a bitch.
Get the plane in the air.
I can't. I can barely stand.
That should help.
Maria Hill to S.H.I.E.L.D. 616.
You have 30 seconds to
stand down and surrender.
I repeat, stand down and surrender.
You gonna answer me, Ward,
or do I have to come over there?
Maria Hill. I kind of hoped you
went down with the Triskelion.
And I hoped you weren't
the duplicitous lowlife
you turned out to be, but here we are.
Gonna be honest with you, Hill,
I'm having a pretty bad day.
So if I were you,
I would get the hell out of my way.
Mmm, give up Skye,
and we'll talk about it.
- Yeah, that's not happening.
-You know, I never liked you, Ward.
Not since our first sit-down.
But I never figured you
for John Garrett's lapdog.
A lot of us lost respect for Fury
when he picked you as his second.
If he needed eye candy around,
he could've at least picked Romanoff.
That's funny. I'll tell her you said that.
Now hand Skye over,
or I'll have a squad of F-16s
knock you on your ass.
Even if you had that kind of pull
anymore, which you don't,
Coulson would never let you do it.
He would never sacrifice Skye like that.
But you know Garrett would.
So don't try and follow us.
This doesn't have to
go down like this, Ward.
You don't owe Garrett anything.
You're wrong.
You want me to pursue?
No. Their tracking systems
are up and running.
I just hope we bought enough time.
Are you okay? Did Ward hurt you?
No, I'm okay.
But, the encrypted hard drive,
I unlocked it for them.
Forget that. We need to move.
We're gonna take the cockpit.
- Wait. You came alone?
-it's okay. I can take Ward.
I know, but how did you
get past Deathlok?
- Deathlok's here on the plane?
-Yeah, you didn't take him out?
- New plan. Run!
-Wait. What about you?
Get to the cargo hold. Now!
I can't let you leave, Agent Coulson.
It's still my plane.
--I don't need your permission.
I've never used a parachute before!
Forget that! Get in the car!
Get down, get down!
Buckle up!
I told you to buckle up!
Come on!
They must've hit the thrusters!
That'll be 20 bucks.
I'm putting the plane down.
We need to go after them.
- No, we don't. We stay with the plan.
-I don't answer to you.
Coulson and Skye
don't matter anymore.
We have the data, and Garrett
wants us back. Right now.
Listen, I'm not just gonna forget
what you did to me back there.
You try anything like that again,
I will kill you.
Wasn't personal.
I was just following orders.
Wow. I can't believe he shot Lola.
I can't talk about it.
Don't blame you for going after him.
We'll need a base of operation,
weapons, tactical backup.
Who do you have working for you?
Okay, wait. Hold on, Coulson.
There is no more backup.
No more hidden bunkers.
Come on. I know Fury has others.
There's no Fury.
We're not bringing the band back
together again, Coulson. It's over.
There is no S.H.I.E.L.D. anymore.
Not officially.
Look, I get it, okay?
You have to take
Ward and Garrett down.
But don't act like
it's some officially sanctioned mission.
It's a personal vendetta.
And when it's done, you should walk.
Let your people go their separate ways.
And what,
turn themselves in?
Cut a deal? Work in the private sector?
You know Stark would take you
in a heartbeat.
It's not my style.
I should go. You know where to find me.
Say hello to Stark for...
Oh, yeah. Never mind.
He thinks I'm dead.
Must be some reason
why Ward did it.
Maybe they brainwashed him.
I don't know.
Some people are just evil.
I'd rather not believe that.
It's true.
I just assumed we'd be
better at spotting it.
Tell me that you're not HYDRA.
What?
I know that it's ridiculous,
but I just need to hear you say it.
I'm not HYDRA.
Yeah, good. 'Cause I'm not either.
- Of course not.
-Yeah.
- Because if you ever did...
-I wouldn't.
...I don't know what I would do.
You'll never have to find out.
Thought you didn't eat junk food.
I'm on vacation.
Until...
Till that man tells me it's time to work.
Not tonight. Live a little.
That case, I'm gonna go crazy.
Maybe have another bag.
- Never been homeless before.
It's not fun. At least we have a pool.
What do you got
going on here?
Chips?
Wen get him.
I know.
I left them a little present
when I decrypted the drive.
Should help.
Thanks.
Nice night.
I was hoping you'd come back.
- Ward is...
-I know.
Hill told me.
There's something you need to see.
You wanted to know
who was behind T.A.H.I.T.I.?
This is what I found out.
Good morning, Director Fury.
I regret to inform you that
I'm handing in my resignation.
I know you brought me
on to Project T.A.H.I.T.I.
because you trusted my judgment,
and it's that judgment that's
telling me I can no longer,
in good conscience,
let the testing continue.
I understand you started the program
to potentially save
a mortally-wounded Avenger.
But the side effects are too extreme.
We had initial success
with the regenerative properties
of the Guest Host's tissue,
but after the initial physical recovery,
the subjects began
to deteriorate mentally,
displaying hypergraphia,
aphasia, catatonia,
or just complete psychosis.
We don't know
if it was the biology at play,
or simply the awareness
of what was done.
But the only course of action
that showed any promise of
stemming these side effects
was memory replacement,
erasing completely the awareness
of what they'd been through.
And even those results
were very inconsistent.
To be clear,
I'm recommending the termination
of Project T.A.H.I.T.I.
Under no circumstances should
these procedures or drugs
be administered to anyone, ever.
The cost is far too great.
Thank you, sir.
Huh.